# GLaDOS source code (`GLaDOS/src/`)

"GLaDOS" is an acronym for the "Generic Lifeform and Domicile Operating System." 
It is an operating environment for text-based AI systems.  The present directory 
contains the Python source code for the GLaDOS system.  [n.b.--Please note there 
is no relation between this facility and the fictional AI named GLaDOS from the 
Portal video game series.]

## Package subdirectories

These are the packages that will make up the GLaDOS system.

### Commands (`commands/`)

The commands package provides a top-level command interface and menu system
that the AI can use to command and control its instance of the GLaDOS 
environment.  Top-level commands allow the AI to manipulate its existing 
windows, launch processes in new windows, modify key settings, skip ahead
in time by certain amounts, and so forth.

### Configuration (`config/`)

The configuration package is used to track various configuration parameters 
of the GLaDOS system.  The AI can modify its own configuration through the 
Settings interface (which is a process that runs within a window).

### Event representations (`events/`)

An "event" in general just means a object that provides a textual 
representation of an individual input to, or output from, the AI.  A given 
event can be represented in different text formats, providing different 
amounts of information.  For example, a specific representation of a given 
event may or may not show:  The date on which the event was created, the 
time at which the event was created (with different granularities), and 
the source of the event.  Information sources can include: (1) the AI 
itself; (2) an external entity that the AI is communicating with through a 
communication process, (3) another process such as a Unix shell.  The 
current event representation may be modified by the AI.

### Receptive field facility (`field/`)

This package maintains the state of a "receptive field", which maintains
the body of information that is currently present and visible in the AI's 
field of immediate "perceptual awareness".  Our understanding is that 
GPT-3's architecture limits the size of this field to 2,048 tokens.  
Within GLaDOS, the receptive field normally shows the AI the most recent
2,048 tokens worth of information contained in the AI's history buffer.

### GPT-3 Interface (`gpt3/`)

This package interfaces to OpenAI's core GPT-3 system through its REST API.

### History buffer (`history/`)

A "history buffer" is an indefinitely-large buffer that tracks a temporal
sequence of "perceptions" received by the AI, intermixed with "thoughts" 
generated by it.  In general, a history is a sequence of events.  At some
point, old events in the memory may be spooled over into the long-term 
memory bank.

### Memory system (`memory/`)

This package implements a searchable long-term memory facility, which is 
maintained in the filesystem, in a directory hierarchy.  In general the 
data in the memory system may be organized as a database of event objects,
but flat text files may also be supported.

### Core cognitive system (`mind/`)

The "mind" subsystem of GLaDOS is a process (implemented as a thread) that
runs the main loop of the AI's cognitive process.  The essence of this main
loop is simply to do the following: (1) Present the text-synthesis AI with 
its current receptive field, which usually ends with a prompt telling it 
something like "You may now type a command, or a paragraph of text." (2)
Retrieve the completion generated by the AI. (3) If it is a command, then
interpret and execute it; otherwise, just add the text to the history. (4)
Set an alarm to automatically wake the mind up after the current autoskip 
interval has passed. (5) Go to sleep until the alarm goes off or an input
message is received from an external user on the system. (6) Repeat.

### Process system (`processes/`)

This package implements a system of "processes" that the AI can interact
with.  A "process" is an automated subsystem that the AI can send commands
and text to, and that produces output that can be viewed by the AI in its
"window" system.  A given process may implement a bridge to some external
system--for example, a web search engine, a communication system (e.g.,
Telegram), or to some local subsystem (e.g., a Unix command prompt on
the current host), or to an internal subsystem of the GLaDOS facility 
itself, such as the memory system, or the settings interface, which lets
the AI modify the configuration of the GLaDOS system.

### Terminal system (`terminal/`)

This package implements a terminal interface for use by human users who
are interacting with an instance of the GLaDOS system.  It uses the 
curses framework to paint the interface to the underlying Unix terminal.
It runs under the user's account, and uses inter-process communication to
interact with the GLaDOS process, which runs under the AI's user account.

### 'Window' system (`windows/`)

This package implements a facility that supports the existence of 
interactive "windows" embedded within the AI's receptive field.  
These windows can be manipulated in various ways by the AI, and it
can interact with "processes" running inside the windows.
